>> Woodruff: PRESIDENT OBAMA
JOINED A GATHERING OLEADF ERS
FROM THE WORLD'S WEALTHIEST
NATIONS TODAY.
TOPPING THE AGENDA: WHAT TO DO
ABOUT THE BLOODY CIVIL WAR IN
SYRIA.
GOOD EVENING.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
>> Ifill: AND I'M GWEN IFILL.
ON THE NEWSHOUR TONIGHT, WE
EXPLORE THE U.S.-RUSSIAN SPLIT
OVER SYRIA, AND THE SHARED GOAL
OF STOPPING THE VIOLENCE.
>> Woodruff: THEN, THE SUPREME
COURT RULED ARIZONA MAY NOT
REQUIRE PROOF OF CITIZENSHIP IN
ORDER TO VOTE.
MARCIA COYLE BREAKS DOWN THE
DECISION.
>> Ifill: RAY SUAREZ CONTINUES
OUR SERIES INSIDE IMMIGRATION
REFORM.
TONIGHT, WE DEBATE THE "E-
VERIFY" SYSTEM TO CHECK WORKERS'
ELIGIBILITY.
>> Woodruff: WE LOOK AT THE
SURPRISE RESULT IN IRAN'S
PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION, AND WHAT
THEY COULD MEAN FOR ITS NUCLEAR
PROGRAM AND RELATIONS WITH THE
U..S
>> Ifill: HARI SREENIVASAN GETS
THE LATEST ON THE WAR IN THE
STATES OVER WHETHER TO EXPAND
MEDICAID UNDER PRESIDENT OBAMA'S
HEALTH CARE LAW.
>> Woodruff: AND PAUL SOLMAN
CLOSES WITH A CONVERSATION WITH
THE AUTHOR OF A NEW BOOK, "WHO
OWNS THE FUTURE?," WHICH POSES A
PROVOCATIVE WAY TO THINK OF OUR
DIGITAL LIVES.
>> THE GOVERNMENT SHOULD HAVE TO
PAY FOR WHATEVER IT DOES,
INCLUDING GETTING INFORMATION
FROM PEOPLE, AND SHOULD BE
CONSTRAINED BY ITS BUDGET.
SO IF THEY HAVE TO PAY FOR
COLLECTING THOSE IMAGES OF YOU
WALKING AROUND, THEN THEY HAVE
TO CREATE A SENSE OF BALANCE
ABOUT HOW OFTEN THEY DO IT.
>> Woodruff: THAT'S ALL AHEAD ON
TONIGHT'S NEWSHOUR.
>> Ifill: THE GROUP OF EIGHT
SUMMIT WAS ALIVE TODAY WITH TALK
OF SYRIA, AND THE U.S. MOVE TO
INTERVENE THERE MORE DIRECTLY.
THE INTERNATIONAL GATHERING
CONVENED IN NORTHERN IRELAND.
.
>>  AND THE G8 LEADERS ARRIVED
TODAY, SYRIA'S BLOODY CIVIL WAR
OVER SHADOWED THE CONFERENCE'S
USUAL FOCUS ON TRADE DEALS AND
UNEMPLOYMENT.
THE U.S. DECISION TO SEND ARMS
TO THE SYRIAN REBELS GUARANTEED
THE PLACE IN THE SPOTLIGHT.
AT THE SAME TIME A GROWING FEUD
BETWEEN WASHINGTON AND MOSCOW.
PRESIDENT OBAMA AND RUSSIAN
PRESIDENT PUTIN MET PRIVATELY ON
THE SIDELINES OF THE MEETING
TODAY IN NORTHERN IRELAND.
THE TONE WAS CONCILIATORY.
>> WE DO HAVE DIFFERING
PERSPECTIVES ON THE PROBLEM BUT
WE SHARE IN REDUCING THE
VIOLENCE, SECURING THE CHEMICAL
WEAPON AND THAT WE WANT TO
RESOLVE THE ISSUE TRUE POLITICAL
MEANS IF POSSIBLE.
>>  OF COURSE OUR OPINIONS DO
NOT COINCIDE.
BUT WE ARE UNITED BY THE COMMON
INTENTION TO END THE VIOLENCE.
TO STOP THE NUMBER OF VICTIMS
FROM INCREASING AND TO RESOLVE
THE PROBLEMS BY PEACEFUL MEANS.
>>  PUTIT WAS IN LONDON
YESTERDAY WITHOUT PRESIDENT
OBAMA AT HIS SIDE POLITICIZING
ANY MOVES TO AID THE REBELS
INVOLVING A REBEL COMMANDER.
>>  I BELIEVE ONE DOES NOT
REALLY NEED TO SUPPORT THE
PEOPLE WHO NOT ONLY KILL THEIR
ENEMIES BUT EAT THEIR INTESTINES
IN FRONT MUCH OF THE CAMERAS ARE
THESE THE PEOPLE YOU WANT TO
SUPPORT THIS ARE THEY THE ONE
YOU WANT TO SUPPLY WITH WEAPONS.
>>  PUTIN DEFENDED RUSSIAN ARMS.
BACK IN MOSCOW TODAY, THE
RUSSIAN FOREIGN MINISTER ACCUSED
OF U.S. OF MOUNTING MILITARY
EXERCISES IN JORDAN AS A COVER
FOR IMPLEMENTING A NO FLY ZONE
OVERSEER I CAN'T, SOMETHING
RUSSIA OPPOSES.
>>  I THINK WE FUNDAMENTALLY
WILL NOT ALLOW THE SCENARIO AND
REPORTS THAT OUR AMERICAN
PARTNERS ARE DOING PREPARATORY
WORK AT MILITARY COMPLEXES
RELATED TO THIS ARE ALSO A
DIRECT VIOLATION.
>>  IN DAMASCUS SYRIAN PRESIDENT
CONDEMNED THE U.S. MOVE TELLING
A GERMAN NEWSPAPER THAT EUROPE
WILL PAY THE PRICE IF IT DOES
THE SAME.
IN WASHINGTON ON SUNDAY FORMER
VICE PRESIDENT DICK CHENEY TOOK
THE OPPOSITE TACK FORMING THAT
PRESIDENT OBAMA IS DOING TOO
LITTLE TOO LATE IN SYRIA.
>>  HAD THAN OPPORTUNITY EARLIER
TO PROVIDE SUPPORT WITHOUT
HAVING TO GIVE AMERICAN FORCES
DIRECTLY INVOLVED THEY TOOK
PATHS NOW THEY'RE GOING TO DO
IT.
BUT THE QUESTION IS WHETHER OR
NOT THEY'RE A DAY LAR SHORT.
>>  WHITE HOUSE CHIEF OF STAFF
ANSWERS CRITICS BY SAYING THE
PRESIDENT HAS NO INTENTION TO
RUSH TO WAR.
>>  WE WANT TO MAKE SURE SHOULD
R THAT SYRIANS WHO TAKE CHARGE
OF THEIR OWN COUNTRY HAVE THE
ABILITY TO DO.
THAT WE HAVE TO BE VERY
DISCERNING ABOUT WHAT IS IN OUR
INTEREST AND WHAT THE
OUTCOMES -- WHAT OUTCOME IS BEST
FOR US THE PRICES THAT WE'RE
WILLING TO PAY TO GET TO THAT
PLACE.
>>  THE SYRIAN CONFLICT IS
INCREASINGLY EVOLVING IN TO A
SECTARIAN WAR.
ON SUNDAY THE EGYPTIAN -- HE
DEMANDED THAT SHIITE HEZBOLLAH
FIGHTERS FROM LEBANON LEAVE
SYRIA.
LATE TODAY THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION ANNOUNCED IT
WOULD SPEND AN ADDITIONAL $300
MILLION IN HUMANITARIAN AID TO
THOSE AFFECTED BY THE SYRIAN
CRISIS.
THAT BRINGS TOTAL U.S.
ASSISTANCE TO NEARLY $850
MILLION SINCE THE CIVIL WAR
BEGAN.
>> Woodruff: LATER TONIGHT ON
MOST PBS STATIONS, PRESIDENT
OBAMA SITS DOWN FOR AN INTERVIEW
WITH CHARLIE ROSE WHERE HE
DISCUSSES SYRIA, AMONG OTHER
TOPICS.
STILL TO COME ON THE NEWSHOUR,
THE SUPREME COURT RULES YOU
DON'T NEED PROOF OF CITIZENSHIP
TO VOTE; WE DEBATE ELECTRONIC
VERIFICATION FOR IMMIGRANT
WORKERS; WHO IS IRAN'S NEW
PRESIDENT?; STATES GRAPPLE WITH
EXPANSIONS TO MEDICAID; AND AN
AUTHOR ARGUES WE SHOULD GET PAID
FOR INFORMATION THE GOVERNMENT
COLLECTS ON US.
BUT FIRST, THE OTHER NEWS OF THE
DAY.
HERE'S HARI SREENIVASAN.
>> Sreenivasan: AS THE G-8
CONVENED, A LONDON NEWSPAPER
REPORTED BRITAIN HAS HACKED INTO
E-MAILS AND PHONE CONVERSATIONS
OF FOREIGN LEADERS AND
DIPLOMATS.
THE "GUARDIAN" SAID CLASSIFIED
DOCUMENTS SHOW IT HAPPENED AT A
2009 SUMMIT.
THE REPORT SAID BRITISH
INTELLIGENCE EVEN SET UP A
"BUGGED" INTERNET CAFE.
SEVERAL COUNTRIES-- RUSSIA,
SOUTH AFRICA, AND TURKEY--
CALLED FOR FULL EXPLANATIONS.
THE MAN WHO LEAKED WORD OF
SECRET SURVEILLANCE BY THE
NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY HAS
SPOKEN OUT AGAIN.
EDWARD SNOWDEN HELD AN ONLINE
CHAT ON THE "GUARDIAN" WEB SITE.
HE DEFENDED WHAT HE DID, SAYING
"IT WAS SEEING A CONTINUING
LITANY OF LIES FROM SENIOR
OFFICIALS AND THE REALIZATION
THAT CONGRESS WHOLLY SUPPORTED
THE LIES THAT COMPELLED ME TO
ACT."
SNOWDEN WAS LAST KNOWN TO BE IN
HONG KONG, BUT HE SAID TODAY, "I
HAVE NO CONTACT WITH THE CHINESE
GOVERNMENT.
I WORK ONLY WITH JOURNALISTS."
HE ALSO SAID HE DOES NOT EXPECT
A FAIR TRIAL, IF HE IS EVER
CHARGED AND RETURNED TO THE
UNITED STATES.
THE GOVERNMENT OF TURKEY KEPT UP
THE PRESSURE TODAY IN A BID TO
PUT AN END TO PROTESTS.
RIOT POLICE FIRED WATER CANNONS
AND TEAR GAS AT SMALL GROUPS OF
DEMONSTRATORS NEAR ISTANBUL'S
TAKSIM SQUARE.
POLICE OUSTED THE PROTESTERS
FROM A PARK THERE OVER THE
WEEKEND, ENDING AN 18-DAY
SIT-IN.
MEANWHILE, IN ANKARA, THOUSANDS
OF STRIKING UNION WORKERS WAVED
BANNERS AND FLAGS TODAY, IN A
PEACEFUL RALLY APPEALING FOR A
MORE DEMOCRATIC GOVERNMENT.
>>  WE ARE HERE TO PROTEST THE
RULING PARTY'S PRESSURES.
WE PROTEST AGAINST UNFAIR
WORKING CONDITIONS, THEY'RE
IGNORING OUR DEMANDS.
AND LIMITING OUR FREEDOM OF
EXPRESSION.
>>  WE THOUGHT THE COMMON SENSE
WAS ON VACATION WE THOUGHT IT
WOULD RETURN BUT IT DIDN'T.
WE WANT TO BE INTEREST THEM.
WE'RE HERE TO PROT O
CHILDREN AND PREVENT PEOPLE FROM
CRYING.
WE WANT TO LIVE IN A NORMAL
COUNTRY.
>>
>> Sreenivasan: IN RESPONSE,
TURKEY'S DEPUTY PRIME MINISTER
SUGGESTED TODAY THE MILITARY
COULD BE CALLED OUT, IF THE
POLICE ARE NOT ENOUGH.
THE MOST DESTRUCTIVE WILDFIRE
EVER TO HIT COLORADO IS NOW 75%
CONTAINED.
RAIN SWEPT THROUGH THE COLORADO
SPRINGS AREA SUNDAY, HELPING PUT
OUT FLAMES.
FIRE CREWS HOPED FOR MORE OF THE
SAME TODAY.
THE FIRE HAS DESTROYED NEARLY
500 HOMES AND KILLED TWO PEOPLE.
AUTHORITIES SAID TODAY THEY'RE
GETTING CLOSER TO PINPOINTING
EXACTLY WHERE IT STARTED.
ON WALL STREET TODAY, THE DOW
JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE GAINED
109 POINTS TO CLOSE WELL ABOVE
15,179.
THE NASDAQ ROSE 28 POINTS TO
CLOSE AT 3452.
THOSE ARE SOME OF THE DAY'S
MAJOR STORIES.
NOW, BACK TO JUDY.
>> Woodruff: THE SUPREME COURT
ISSUED A 7-2 DECISION TODAY
STRIKING DOWN ARIZONA'S LAW THAT
REQUIRED PEOPLE TO SHOW PROOF OF
CITIZENSHIP WHEN THEY REGISTERED
TO VOTE IN FEDERAL ELECTIONS.
THE RULING AFFECTS SEVERAL
STATES WITH SIMILAR LAWS, AND
WILL BLOCK OTHERS FROM ADDING
REQUIREMENTS TO THE VOTER
REGISTRATION PROCESS.
THE COURT FOUND A STATE LAW
CAN'T TRUMP THE 1993 MOTOR VOTER
LAW, WHICH STREAMLINES ELECTION
SIGN-UPS THROUGH A NATIONAL FORM
SYSTEM.
WITH US, AS ALWAYS, IS MARCIA
COYLE OF THE "NATIONAL LAW
JOURNAL."
TELL US A LITTLE MORE ABOUT
THE CASE OF THE JUSTICE.
>>  THE ELECTION CLAUSE IN THE
FEDERAL CONSTITUTION IT GIVES
STATES THE RESPONSIBILITY TO SET
THE TIME, PLACE AND MANNER OF
FEDERAL ELECTIONS.
BUT IT ALSO GIVES CONGRESS THE
POWER TO ALTER THOSE
REGULATIONS, AS YOU SAID IN
1993, CONGRESS ENACADEMY THE
MOTOR VOTER LAW THAT CREATED A
SIMPLE UNIFIED FORM TO REGISTER
TO VOTE.
IN 2004 ARIZONA ENACTED
PROPOSITION 200, AND THAT
REQUIRED STATE VOTING OFFICIALS
TO REJECT ANY REGISTRATION FORM
THAT DID NOT INCLUDE CONCRETE
EVIDENCE OF CITIZENSHIP SUCH AS
DRIVER'S LICENSE, BIRTH
CERTIFICATE.
THE ISSUE BEFORE THE COURT WAS
WHETHER THAT REQUIREMENT
CONFLICTED WITH THE FEDERAL FORM
WHICH ONLY REQUIRES THE
APPLICANT TO ATTEST, SIGN THAT
THE PERSON IS A CITIZEN UNDER
PENALTY OF PERJURY.
>> WHAT DID THE JUSTICES DO?
>>  JUSTICE SCALIA WROTE FOR THE
MAJORITY AS HE WAS DURING ORAL
ARGUMENTS, HE WAS VERY SKEPTICAL
OF ARIZONA'S ARGUMENT THAT UNDER
THE FEDERAL LAW WHICH REQUIRES
STATES TO ACCEPT AND USE THE
FEDERAL FORM, THE TERMS, ACCEPT
AND USE MEANS ONLY TO WILLINGLY
RECEIVE THE FORM AND USE IT AS
PART OF THE STATE'S REGISTRATION
PROCESS.
HE SAID THIS WAS A MANDATE IN
THE FEDERAL LAW FOR A SPECIFIC
PURPOSE.
AND IF ARIZONA AND OTHER STATES
COULD TACK ON TO THE FEDERAL LAW
DIFFERENT REQUIREMENTS, PRETTY
SOON THE FEDERAL LAW WOULD NO
LONGER HAVE A VERY SIMPLE AND
DOWN WHAT ARIZONA HAS DONE BUT
THERE WAS ALSO LANGUAGE IN THE
RULING THAT GIVES SOME HOPE TO
STATES MAYBE EVEN ARIZONA ABOUT
A PATHWAY THEY CAN CHOOSE IF
THEY DO WANT TO TIGHTEN VOTING
REQUIREMENTS.
>>  ABSOLUTELY, JUDY.
THIS IS THE SECOND PART OF HIS
OPINION.
HE SAID, WELL ARIZONA, YOU CAN
GO BACK TO THE FEDERAL ELECTIONS
ASSISTANCE COMMISSION WHICH
OVERSEES THE FEDERAL FORM, AND
ASK IT TO INCLUDE A STATE
SPECIFIC REQUIREMENT LIKE YOU
HAVE IN PROPOSITION 200.
IF THE COMMISSION REJECTS YOUR
REQUEST, YOU CAN FILE A LAWSUIT
AND CHALLENGE THAT DECISION IN
FEDERAL COURT.
>> Woodruff:  IS IT -- IS
THERE CLARITY HERE OR HOW DO YOU
READ IT?
>>  I THINK IT'S ONE OF THOSE
TWO SIDED DECISIONS.
HE DID PROVIDE A ROAD MAP FOR
THE STATE IF THEY WANT TO ADD
REQUIREMENTS ON TO VOTER
REGISTRATION FORMS.
ON THE OTHER HAND HE ALSO SPOKE
TO THE ELECTIONS CLAUSE AND THE
POWER THAT CONGRESS HAS GIVEN
HERE IS BEING QUITE BROAD.
ULTIMATELY WHAT WE'RE GOING TO
SEE IS STATES ARE GOING TO TRY
TO ADD SOME STATE SPECIFIC
REQUIREMENTS TO THE FEDERAL
FORM.
JUSTICE WROTE A DESCENT HE SAID
BASICALLY, THIS IS A REMEDY THAT
IS JUST NOT GOING TO WORK
BECAUSE RIGHT NOW THERE IS NO
ONE ON THE FEDERAL ELECTIONS
ASSISTANCE COMMISSION, IT'S NOT
FUNCTIONING.
>> Woodruff:  MARCIA, THIS IS
7-2 DECISION, UNUSUAL SPLIT
AMONG THE CONSERVATIVES?
YOU HAD JUSTICE SCALIA WRITING
THE OPINION, COUPLE OF OTHERS
CONSERVATIVES JOINING WITH HIM.
BUT YOU HAD JUSTICE ALITO AND
JUSTICE THOMAS DEFENSING.
>>  I'VE ALWAYS BELIEVED THAT
THE CONSERVATIVES ON THE COURT
AS WELL AS THE MORE LIBERAL
MEMBERS ON THE COURT ARE NOT
MONOLITHIC BLOCKS.
AND THE CONSERVATIVES, JUSTICE
SCALIA AND JUSTICE ALITO HAVE
DIFFERENT AMENDMENT CASES.
THEY ARE NOT CLONED THEY ALSO
HAVE DIFFERED ON FIRST AMENDMENT
AND EVEN SOME CRIMINAL LAW
CASES.
WHILE IT IS SURPRISING TO SEE,
IT'S NOT UNUSUAL.
>> Woodruff:  YOU WRITE ABOUT
THIS IN YOUR BOOK.
>>  I DO.
ROBERT'S COURT.
IT WOULD BE SO MUCH EASIER IF
THEY DID FIT IN TO AN EASY
EXPLAIN NATION.
>>  THOSE OF US WHO WRITE AND
TALK ABOUT THE COURT.
>> Woodruff:  THERE ARE STILL
SOME VERY HIGH PROFILE CASES
THAT JUSTICES HAVE BEEN DECIDING
ON.
WE DON'T KNOW HOW THEY'RE GOING
TO RULE, WHAT IS THE THINKING
ABOUT WHAT'S TAKING SO LONG?
>>  OKAY.
THEY'RE VERY DIFFICULT CASES.
THE THREE THAT WE'RE ALL SORT OF
WATCHING CLOSELY INVOLVE
AFFIRMATIVE ACTION, UNIVERSITY
OF TEXAS CASE.
VOTING RIGHTS, THE CHALLENGE TO
THE HEART.
VOTING RIGHTS AGO ACT AND THE
TWO SAME-SEX MARRIAGE CASES.
THE COURT TRADITIONALLY WRAPS UP
A TERM IN THE LAST WEEK IN JUNE
WHICH WOULD BE NEXT WEEK,
REALLY.
WE HAVE ONE DECISION DAY
SCHEDULED FOR THIS WEEK ON
THURSDAY.
NEXT WEEK PROBABLY TWO, MAYBE
THREE DAYS FOR THE COURT.
IF IT DOES WANT TO WRAP UP WHO
KNOWS, WE'RE ONLY TOLD WHEN A
DAY IS DECISION DAY BUT NOT WHAT
DECISIONS ARE COMING.
>> Woodruff:  MARCIA COW.
THANK UP.
>> Ifill: ONLINE, WE'LL HAVE
LIVE COVERAGE OF THE SUPREME
COURT'S END-OF-TERM DECISIONS AS
THEY ARRIVE.
AND ON THE DAYS OPINIONS ARE
ISSUED, WE'LL CARRY DEVELOPMENTS
FROM INSIDE THE COURT FROM
SCOTUSBLOG ON OUR HOME PAGE.
>> Woodruff: NEXT, WE TURN TO
THE IMMIGRATION LEGISLATION UP
FOR DEBATE ON THE SENATE FLOOR.
RAY SUAREZ HAS OUR STORY.
>>  PUBLICLY CAN MARCO RUBIO
HELPED THE BILL.
>>  AN EXCELLENT STARTING POINT.
I THINK 95-96% OF THE BILL IS IN
PERFECT SHAPE AND READY TO GO
BUT THERE ARE ELEMENTS THAT NEED
TO BE IMPROVED.
>>  ON SUNDAY THE SENATOR CALLED
AGAIN FOR TOUGHER BORDER
SECURITY REQUIREMENTS.
TO WIN OVER CONSERVATIVE
SKEPTICS IN HIS OWN PARTY.
>> THE DEBATE IS ABOUT WHAT THAT
BORDER SECURITY PROVISION LOOKS
LIKEF WE DO THAT THIS BILL WILL
HAVE STRONG BIPARTISAN SUPPORT.
>>  NEW JERSEY DEMOCRATIC SAID
HIS PARTY COULD SUPPORT
ADDITIONAL REFORM THIS F THEY'RE
OFFERED IN GOOD FAITH.
>>  WE'RE OPEN TO CONSTRUCTIVE
ELEMENTS OF HOW BORDER SECURITY
CAN BE FURTHER ACHIEVED BUT NOT
IF AT THE END OF THE DAY YOU ARE
SIMPLY USING THAT AS AN EXCUSE
NOT TO PERMIT A PATHWAY TO
LEGALIZATION.
>>  LIKE RUB YES AND MENENDEZ,
LINDSEY GRAHAM OF SOUTH CAROLINA
IS ONE OF THE GANG OF EIGHT WHO
WROTE THE BILL.
HE WARNED REPUBLICANS WILL PAY A
HEAVY PRICE IF THE BILL FAILED.
>>  IF WE DON'T PASS IMMIGRATION
REFORM, GET IT OFF THE TABLE IN
A REASONABLE PRACTICAL WAY IT
DOESN'T MATTER WHO YOU RUN IN
2016 WE'RE IN A DEMOGRAPHIC
DEATH SPIRAL AS A PARTY AND ONLY
WAY TO GET BACK IN GOOD GRACES
WITH HISPANIC COMMUNITY IN MY
VIEW IS PASS COMPREHENSIVE
IMMIGRATION REFORM.
>>  HEAR RER,ID SET JULY 4
DEADLINE TO FINISH THE
LEGISLATION THAT GIVES LAWMAKERS
TWO WEEKS TO SORT THROUGH MORE
THAN A HUNDRED AMENDMENTS.
AMONG THEM, PROPOSALS TO BOLSTER
THE ELECTRONIC EMPLOYMENT
VERIFICATION SYSTEM KNOWN AS
E-VERIFY.
THISH HUE COULD DRAW ADDED
ATTENTION FOLLOWING TOLD'S RAIDS
ON 7-ELEVEN STORES IN NEW YORK
AND VIRGINIA.
NINE OWNERS AND MANAGERS ARE
CHARGED IN A SCHEME TO EMPLOY
UNDOCUMENTED IMMIGRANTS FROM
PAKISTAN AND PAY THEM UNDER
STOLEN SECURITY NUMBERS.
E-VERIFY IS ALSO THE LATEST
TOPIC IN OUR ONGOING SERIES,
INSIDE IMMIGRATION REFORM.
IT'S CURRENT LIE VOLUNTARY IN
MOST STATES BUT THAT COULD ALL
CHANGE UNDER THE NEW
LEGISLATION.
WE GET TWO POINTSFROM MARK, EXEF
THE CENTER FOR IMMIGRATION
STUDIES AND AUTHOR OF THE BOOK
"THE NEW CASE AGAINST
IMMIGRATION" BOTH LEGAL AND
ILLEGAL.
AND CHRISTOPHER CALABRY
LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL FOR THE
CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION F. MY LAST
COUPLE OF EMPLOYERS I WAS
ALREADY PROVING THAT I HAD A
SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER AND
SHOWED A DOCUMENT, WHAT IS THE
CURRENT VERSION OF E-VERIFY
DOING AND DON'T EMPLOYEES
ALREADY HAVE TO DO THAT?
>>  IT'S TRUE, DO YOU HAVE TO
DEMONSTRATE FIRST YOUR IDENTITY
AND ALSO YOUR AUTHORIZATION TO
WORK.
BUT IT'S BASED ON PAPER.
SO THE EMPLOYER JUST HAS TO TAKE
PRETTY MUCH AT FACE VALUE
WHATEVER YOU SHOW HIM, AS LONG
AS IT ISN'T MICKEY MOUSE'S
PICTURE HE HAS TO ACCEPT IT.
WHAT E-VERIFY WOULD DO IS THE
EMPLOYER IN DOING ALL HIS NORMAL
HAVE TO CHECK WITH SOCIAL
SECURITY AND HOMELAND SECURITY
DATABASES, WHETHER THE NUMBER,
SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER, NAME,
DATE OF BIRTH ARE REAL LAND THEY
MATCH OF THE THE POINT IS JUST
TO MAKE SURE THAT THE STUFF IS
ALREADY BEING PROVIDED IS
GENUINE AND THAT THE PERSON
ISN'T LYING TO HIS EMPLOYER.
>> CHRISTOPHER, VERSION OF
E-VERIFY WAS ALREADY ROLLED OUT
A COUPLE OF YEARS AGO, WAS THE
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT UP TO THE
TASK OF MATCHING THE DOCUMENTS
PRESENTED BY WORKERS WITH ITS
OWN DATABASE?
>>  I WOULD SAY, NO.
CERTAINLY THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT
HAS GOTTEN BETTER AT THIS TASK
BUT THE TRICK HERE IS THAT FIRST
OF ALL YOU HAVE TO BE CORRECT IN
THE E-VERIFY SYSTEM BEFORE YOU
CAN WORK.
IF THERE IS AN ERROR IN THE
DATABASE THAT MEANS YOU CANNOT
WORK.
AND WHEN YOU LOOK AT ENTIRE
POPULATION, LARGE ONE LIKE THE
U.S., 154 MILLION WORKERS, EVEN
A SMALL ERROR MEANS HUNDREDS OF
THOUSANDS OR EVEN A MILLION
WORKERS MIGHT NOT BE ABLE TO
WORK.
EVEN VERY EFFECTIVE SYSTEM IS
GOING TO POTENTIALLY ENSNARE A
LOT OF WORKERS.
>> DO YOU THINK THE NEW
E-VERIFY, THE NEW GENERATION
E-VERIFY PROPOSED IN THE SENATE
LEGISLATION HAS A SHOT AT
WORKING?
>>  YOU KNOW, I THINK THAT
YOU'RE STILL GOING TO HAVE A LOT
OF WORKERS WHO ARE GOING TO GET
CAUGHT UP IN THE SYSTEM THAT
AREN'T GOING TO BE ABLE TO WORK
BECAUSE OF ERRORS IN THE
DATABASES.
THAT'S GOING TO BE A REAL
PROBLEM FOR THEM.
I MEAN THIS THING ABOUT THIS
BILL THAT -- THIS PROGRAM THAT'S
DIFFERENT THAN MANY OTHER THINGS
IS THIS AFFECTS EVERYBODY.
WHETHER YOU HAVE ANYTHING TO DO
WITH IMMIGRATION OR NOT YOU'RE
GOING TO BE UNDER THIS NEW
MANDATE AND THAT MANDATE MAY
MEAN THAT YOU, THROUGH NO FAULT
OF YOUR OWN, SUDDENLY NEED TO
PROVE YOUR WORK ELIGIBILITY TO
THE GOVERNMENT.
THAT MAKES IT TRICKY.
>>  A STEP IN THE RIGHT
DIRECTION, MARK?
>>  IT'S CLEARLY A STEP IN THE
RIGHT DIRECTION.
THE IDEA THAT HUNDREDS OF
THOUSANDS OF PEOPLE ARE SOMEHOW
GOING TO BE DENIED EMPLOYMENT
BECAUSE OF MISTAKES AND SYSTEM
IS JUST NOT TRUE.
FIRST OF ALL YOU HAVE TO BE
HIRED FIRST, YOU'RE ALREADY
WORKING FOR THE EMPLOYER, ONLY
THEN DO THEY CHECK.
THEY DON'T SCREEN PEOPLE AHEAD
OF TIME.
NUMBER TWO, SOMETHING LIKE
ONE-THIRD OF ALL NEW HIRES LAST
YEAR WERE ALREADY SCREENED, IT'S
VIDEO GAME UNTERRY BUT IT IS
PRETTY WIDELY USED.
WE'VE USED IT FOR A NUMBER OF
YEARS.
WE'VE NEVER HAD ANY PROBLEM WITH
IT.
BUILT SOME PEOPLE DO GET WHAT'S
CALLED TENTATIVE
NON-CONFIRMATION.
INITIAL RESPONSE THAT SAYS,
SOMETHING SEEMS TO BE WRONG,
DOUBLE CHECK EVERYTHING SEE WHAT
THE PROBLEM IS.
MOST OF THE TIME YOU KNOW WHAT
THAT TURNS OUT TO BE, IT'S WOMEN
WHO TOOK THEIR HUSBAND'S NAME
WHEN THEY GOT MARRIED BUT DIDN'T
TELL SOCIAL SECURITY.
FRANKLY, I THINK I'D WANT TO
KNOW ABOUT THAT WHEN I WAS 25
NOT WHEN I WAS 65.
IN A SENSE IT'S ALMOST A PUBLIC
SERVICE MAKING SURE THAT THE
INFORMATION IN YOUR SOCIAL
SECURITY ACCOUNT IS CORRECT
EARLY ON RATHER THAN TRYING TO
FIX IT LATER.
>> MANY OF THE SUPPORTERS ARE
TRYING TO SHIFT THE BURDEN TO
EMPLOYERS, CHECK WHETHER SOMEONE
IS LEGALLY AUTHORIZED TO BE IN
THE COUNTRY AND WORK.
SAY, WE CAN FIX THIS QUICKLY.
SOCIAL SECURITY CARDS HAVE NEVER
HAD PICTURES ON, NEVER ANY KIND
OF PHYSICAL DATA, MAKE EIGHT
HARD CARD, NON-COUNTERFEITABLE
CARD, SOMETHING WITH BIOMETRIC
DATA ON IT AND MAKE THE
IMMIGRANT CARRY IT.
WHAT DO YOU THINK?
>>  WELL, THERE'S A COUPLE OF
PROBLEMS WITH THAT.
THE FIRST ONE IS, IT COULDN'T
JUST BE THE IMMIGRANT WHO
CARRIED IT BECAUSE YOU DIDN'T
HAVE A CARD THAT COULD MEAN
EITHER YOU WERE A CITIZEN OR YOU
WEREN'T WORK AUTHORIZED.
HAVE TO BE A CARD FOR EVERYONE.
AND THAT WOULD BE A TREMENDOUSLY
EXPENSIVE PROPOSITION I THINK
TENS OF BILLIONS OF DOLLARS.
IMAGINE EVERYBODY IN THE UNITED
STATES RUN THROUGH THE DMV
THROUGH SOME SORT OF FEDERAL
IDENTIFICATION SYSTEM.
THAT WOULD BASICALLY BE WHAT IT
WOULD BE.
SO, THAT'S A VERY EXPENSIVE
PROPOSITION, HONESTLY I'M NOT
SURE IT SOLVES THE PROBLEM.
REMEMBER, THE PEOPLE WHO DON'T
WANT TO COMPLY WITH THE
IMMIGRATION SYSTEM NOW AREN'T
COMPLYING.
YOU COULD HAVE A VERY HIGH
ACCEPTANCE RATE, VERY HIGH
COMPLIANCE RATE BUT IF IT WASN'T
THE PEOPLE YOU WERE TRYING TO
GET AT TO WANT TO HIRE
UNDOCUMENTED WORKERS, DON'T CARE
ABOUT CREDENTIALS, I DON'T THINK
ANY OF THESE PROPOSALS GET AT
THOSE PEOPLE.
THAT'S A HUGE PROBLEM WE COULD
HAVE A VERY EXPENSIVE, VERY
DOESN'T SOLVE THE PROBLEM.
>>  THE INTERESTING THING,
PEOPLE DON'T GET IS THAT MOST
ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS WORK ON THE
BOOKS, OUR ESTIMATES ARE
SOMETHING LIKE 60% OF ILLEGAL
IMMIGRANTS WHO HAVE JOBS WORKING
ON THE BOOKS WITH REGULAR
EMPLOYERS AND THEY HAVE LIED TO
THE EMPLOYERS ABOUT WHO THEY
ARE.
SOCIAL SECURITY ACTUALLY
ESTIMATES EVEN MORE, MAYBE 75%.
THIS ISN'T JUST AN ISSUE OF
PEOPLE HUDDLED IN FRONT OF THE
HOME DEPOT WORKING FOR CASH.
MOST OF THE PROBLEM CAN IN FACT
BE ADDRESSED BY A BETTER --
E-VERIFY SYSTEM THAT IS APPLIED
UNIVERSAL LEECH IT'S NOT A MAGIC
BULLET, NOT GOING TO MAGICALLY
FIX ANYTHING ALL HAT ONCE BUT IT
IS ONE OF THE MOST IMPORTANT
ELEMENTS BECAUSE IF PEOPLE HAVE
A VERY HARD TIME FINDING WORK,
THEN IT BECOMES MUCH LESS
APPEALING TO COME HERE OR STAY
HERE AS ILLEGAL AILLYIAN.
>>  IN THE SHORT TIME WE HAVE
LEFT LET ME GET HA QUICK SHOT
AT THE WATERFRONT FROM BOTH OF
YOU ON HOW WE CAN DO BETTER WITH
E-VERIFY.
>>  I THINK ONE OF THE THINGS WE
CAN DO IS EXISTING WAGE AND HOUR
LAWS, PUT SOME OF THE MONEY
TOWARDS FINDINGMENT BAD
EMPLOYERS, ACTUALLY SENDING
TESTERS TO SEE IF THEY'RE NOT
COMPLYING WITH THE LAW AND
BRINGING DOWN EXISTING PENALTIES
THAT WE HAVE ON THOSE EMPLOYERS.
MUCH LESS INVASIVE THAN A GIANT
SYSTEM TARGETED AT EVERYBODY, I
THINK IT'S SOMETHING THAT KEEPS
ORDINARY FOLKS REALLY DON'T EVEN
REALIZE THEY'RE BEING AFFECTED
BY THIS DISCUSSION FROM HAVING
TO GRAPPLE WITH A GIANT FEDERAL
BUREAUCRACY IN ORDER TO WORK.
>> IF YOU DON'T LIKE E-VERIFY,
YOU NEED ONLY REAL SOLUTION TO
LET ILLEGAL AILLYIANS WORK.
YOU CAN'T HAVE A BAN.
BUT NOT HAVE SOME WAY FOR
LEGITIMATE EMPLOYERS TO ACTUALLY
KNOW WHETHER THEY'RE HIRING
PEOPLE WHO ARE AUTHORIZED TO
WORK OR NOT.
THIS ISN'T AN ISSUE OF CROOKED
EMPLOYERS, YOU'RE ALWAYS GOING
TO HAVE SOME OF THAT, THAT'S
WHAT WE HAVE POLICE AND OTHER
THINGS FOR.
THE ISSUE HERE IS LEGITIMATE LAW
ABIDING EMPLOYERS WHO WANT TO DO
THE RIGHT THING BUT NOW HAVE
REAL DIFFICULTY IN TELLING
WHETHER SOMEBODY IS LEGAL OR
ILLEGAL AND THE WAY THE LAW IS
NOW IF YOU LOOK TOO CLOSELY YOU
CAN ACTUALLY BE SUED BY THE
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT FOR
DISCRIMINATION.
E-VERIFY IS IMPORTANT FOR
EMPLOYERS AS WELL AS THE COUNTRY
AS A WHOLE.
>> THE DEBATE IS UNDERWAY ON
CAPITOL HILL, GENTLEMEN, THANK
YOU BOTH FOR HELPING US EXPLAIN
TO THE PUBLIC WHAT'S AT STAKE.
>>  THANK YOU.
>>  ONLINE, FIVE THINGS YOU
SHOULD KNOW ABOUT E-VERIFY.
THAT'S ON THE RUN DOWN.
>> Ifill: NOW, TO IRAN.
OVER THE WEEKEND, THE COUNTRY
CHOSE A NEW LEADER TO REPLACE
OUTGOING PRESID
AHMADINEJAD.
.
>>  CROWD POURED IN TO THE
STREETS OF TEHRAN SATURDAY
EVENNG CIHEERING FOR THE
COUNTRY'S NEXT PRESIDENT, HASSAN
ROHANI.
WON THE ELECTION IN STUNNING
FASHION.
HE CAPTURED NEARLY 51% OF THE
VOTE, ENOUGH TO A VOID A RUNOFF
AND WELL AHEA OFD SEVERAL MORE
CONSERVATIVE CANDIDATES.
>>  GOD WILLING THIS ELECTION
WILL BE PRELUDE TO THE CHANGES
THAT ARE DEMANDED BY THE PEOPLE.
THIS INCLUDES OF COURSE
REVOLUTION IN THE ECONOMIC
CULTURAL, SOCIAL AND POLITICAL
FIELD.
>>  HIS WIN WAS MARKED BY A LATE
SURGE AS REFORM VOTERS COALESCED
BEHIND HIM IN A TURN OUT THAT
IT WAS FAR CRY FROM THE MASS
PROTESTS THAT FOLLOWED THE 2009
ELECTION.
VIOLENT CLASHES ERUPTED THEN
AMID WIDESPREAD CLAIMS THAT
IRAN'S RULING CLERIC RIGGED THE
RE-ELECTION OF THE PRESIDENT.
ROHANI CALLED FOR MODERATION AND
FOR REVIVING IRAN'S ECONOMY.
IN RECENT YEARS, INTERNATIONAL
SANCTIONS AIMED AT REAN'S
NUCLEAR PROGRAM HELPED FUEL
RISING INFLATION AND HIGH
UNEMPLOYMENT.
ROHANI PRESIDED OVER NUCLEAR
TALKS WITH THE WEST BETWEEN 2003
AND 2005.
BUT TODAY THE PRESIDENT ELECT
WAS NOT SUPPORT CEASING IRANIAN
ENRICHMENT.
>>  WE WILL MAKE NUCLEAR TALKS
MORE ACTIVE.
THIS IS A PROBLEM.
SOLUTION TO THE NUCLEAR PROBLEM
IS JUST TALKS.
NEITHER THREATS NOR SANCTIONS
WILL WORK.
>> Ifill:  HE LEFT OPEN THE
DOOR TO IMPROVING RELATIONS WITH
THE UNITED STATES.
>>  THE PROBLEM COMPLICATED AND
DIFFICULT.
THERE'S AN OLD WOUND THAT SHOULD
BE DEALT WITH WITH PRUDENCE.
OF COURSE WE ARE NOT SEEKING
TENSION OR INCREASE CAN THE
TENSION.
COMMON SENSE SAYS OUR TWO
COUNTRIES SHOULD THINK ABOUT THE
FUTURE MORE THAN THE PAST.
>>  U.S. OFFICIALS CAUTIOUSLY
WELCOMED ROHANI'S VICTORY BUT
STATE DEPARTMENT SPOKESWOMAN
SAID THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION
WANTS TO SEE MORE.
>>  WE LOOK FORWARD TO HIM AND
ARE HOPEFUL THAT HE WILL FULFILL
THE CAMPAIGN PROMISES HE MADE TO
THE IRANIAN PEOPLE SUCH AS
EXPANDING PERSONAL FREEDOMS,
RELEASING POLITICAL PRISONERS
AND IMPROVING IRAN'S RELATIONS
WITH THE INTERNATIONAL
COMMUNITY.
BUT TIME WILL TELL.
>> Ifill:  ISRAEL IS WATCHING
CLOSELY AS WELL, PRIME MINISTER
BENJAMIN NETANYAHU THREATENED
MILITARY ACTION TO STOP THE
NUCLEAR PROGRAM.
>> THE ELECTIONS NO DOUBT
EXPRESS A DISSATISFACTION OF THE
IRANIAN PEOPLE WITH THEIR
REGIME, I DON'T SEE IT PRODUCING
THE GENUINE CHANGE IN IRAN'S
NUCLEAR POLE SEE.
>> Ifill:  ISRAELI PRESIDENT
BY CONTRAST TOOK A MORE HOPEFUL
STANCE REGARDING THE NEW IRANIAN
LEADER.
>>  WILL NOT GO FOR THIS EXTREME
POLICIES, I AM NOT SURE THAT THE
SPECIFIED POLICIES, BUT IT WILL
BE BETTER, I AM SURE AND THAT IS
THERE IS --
>> Ifill:  ROHANI CONFRONTS
THE CHALLENGE OF SATISFYING
DEMANDS FOR CHANGE.
AT HOME AND ABROAD WHILE STAYING
IN THE GOOD GRACES OF EVE RAN'S
HARD LINE SUPREME LEADER EYE
TOLL I CAN'T HAMANAE.
JOINING ME TO TELL US
JOINING ME NOW TO TELL US MORE
ABOUT HASAN RO-HANI AND WHAT HIS
VICTORY MEANS FOR IRAN AND THE
UNITED STATES, ARE.
KARIM SADJADPOUR, A SENIOR
ASSOCIATE AT THE CARNEGIE
ENDOWMENT FOR INTERNATIONAL
PEACE.
AND CLIFF KUPCHIN, MIDDLE EAST
DIRECTOR AT THE EURASIA GROUP.
YOU'VE MET HIM, WHAT IS HE, WHO
IS HE?
TELL US ABOUT HIM.
>>  HE'S A VERY STRAIGHT FORWARD
, THOUGHTFUL EARNEST GUY.
YOU ASK A QUESTION YOU GET AN
ANSWER.
HE'S KIND OF THE ANTI-MAHMOUD
AHMADINEJAD.
I THINK IT'S A NEW LEAVE FOR
IRAN.
I THINK WE'RE OUT OF THE
IDEOLOGY AND BACK TO THE REALM
OF OF THE REAL WORLD.
NOW, HOW MUCH POWER HE HAS HOW
FAR HE CAN TAKE IRAN IS A
DIFFERENT QUESTION.
>> Ifill:  I'M CURIOUS, HE'S
UNIFORM MALLLY BEEN CALLED A
MODERATE, WHAT IS WHAT BY OUR
STANDARDS.
>>  WE WERE HAVING THIS
CONVERSATION TEN YEARS AGO,
ROMAN KNEE WOULD HAVE BEEN
DESCRIBED AS A CONSERVATIVE BUT
GIVEN THE RIGHT WARD SHIFT OF
IRANIAN POLITICS, HE WAS REALLY
THE LONE MODERATE CHOICE THAT
PEOPLE HAD IN THIS ELECTION.
IF YOU LOOK AT IRAN OVER THE
LAST DECADE, THIS IS A NATION
WHICH HAS BEEN SUFFOCATING UNDER
POLITICAL PRESSURE, ECONOMIC
MISMANAGEMENT AND TREMENDOUS
EXTERNAL ECONOMIC PRESSURE, I
THINK FOR IRANIAN PEOPLE THIS IS
THE METEOROLOGICAL EQUIVALENT OF
LIGHT RAIN AFTER EIGHT YEARS OF
DROUGHT.
>> Ifill:  IF YOU WERE TO DRAW
SOME SORT OF -- BETWEEN THE TWO,
IS HE IN THE MIDDLE SOMEWHERE?
>>  HE IS IN THE MIDDLE
SOMEWHERE.
BUT I THINK --
>> Ifill:  NOT A REFORMER.
>>  THAT'S WHAT'S VERY IMPORTANT
FOR EVERYONE TO UNDERSTAND.
HE IS NOT A REFORMER.
HE IS A CHILD OF THE SYSTEM.
HE SERVED AS THE SECRETARY OF
NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL FOR 16
YEARS.
HE SITS ON HIGHEST ADJUDICATING
BODY.
HE'S VERY CLOSE TO THE SUPREME
LEADER, HE'S A CAUTIOUS MAN OF
THE SYSTEM WHO MAY PURSUE REFORM
BUT IS NOT GOING TO TURN HIS
BACK ON THE SYSTEM.
THAT IS WHY I THINK IN MY VIEW
SUPREME LEADER LED HIM BECOME
PRESIDENT.
ULTIMATELY HOMANI DOING NOT
REMEMBER THE THREAT.
>> Ifill:  THE GUY WHO GETS
THE FINAL SAY HOW MUCH POWER
DOES ROHANI REALLY HAVE?
>>  IRANIAN PRESIDENTS HAVE
INFLUENCE DECEMBER PARTICULARLY
MORE THAN THEY DO
INTERNATIONALLY.
IN CHANGING THE STRATEGIC
PRINCIPLE.
JUST LIKE IN WASHINGTON WHERE
THERE IS NEW PRESIDENT BRING IN
WHOLE NEW TEAM, GROUP OF FOLKS
TO STAFF THE BUREAUCRACY AND
ROHANI WILL BE ABLE TO BRING
MORE PROFESSIONAL MANAGERS AND
TECHNOCRATS IN THE SYSTEM.
THOSE TYPES OF MODERATE FORCES
THAT HAVE BEEN PURGED OVER THE
LAST DECADE.
BUT WHEN IT COMES TO I WOULD
ARGUE IDEOLOGICAL PRINCIPLE OF
THE ISLAMIC REVOLUTION,
RESISTANCE AGAINST AMERICA,
REJECTION OF ISRAEL'S EXISTENCE,
SUPPORT FOR GROUPS LICK
HEZBOLLAH, I WOULD ARGUE -- THAT
ROHANI'S INFLUENCE IS MORE
TACTICAL THAN STRATEGIC.
NOT GOING TO CHANGE THOSE
PRINCIPLESS BUT HE CAN CONDUCT
DIPLOMACY WITH A SMILING
MODERATE FACE AS OPPOSED TO
MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD.
>> Ifill:  WHAT A ABOUT
NUCLEAR WEAPONS, WE'VE SEEN THEM
GROW, WHAT ALMOST EVERYBODY IS
WORRIED ABOUT TANGENTIALLY.
>>  WELL, LOOK, I AGREE WITH HIM
THAT WE'RE UNLIKELY TO SEE
CHANGE.
BUT THE NUCLEAR ARENA IS
DIFFERENT.
THIS IS WHERE IN THE DEGAIT HE
EFFECTIVETIVELY LINKED IRAN'S
NUCLEAR POSITION WITH SANCTIONS
WITH THE SUFFERING OF EVERY
IRANIAN CITIZEN AND IT WORKED.
IN SOME WAYS THAT ELECTION WAS A
MANDATE FOR ROHANI TO SUPPORT A
DIFFERENT POLICY.
HE WILL PURSUE A MORE REASONABLE
POSITION, BRING IN SKILLED
DIPLOMATS AND ATMOSPHERE WILL
CHANGE.
DOESN'T MEAN WE'LL GET A DEAL
BUT I THINK WE GOT BETTER CHANCE
TODAY THAN WE DID LAST FRIDAY.
>> Ifill:  YOU SAY WE, THE
U.S. FINALLY HAS SOMEONE TO DEAL
WITH TO TALK TO WHO IS NOT GOING
TO COME AND DECLARE THAT U.S.
SMELLS OF SULFUR OR WHATEVER
THAT WAS?
>>  I AGREE WITH THE PERSPECTIVE
THIS FOR THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION WAS THE BEST
POSSIBLE OUTCOME, OR LEAST BAD
OUTCOME OF A VERY FLAWED
ELECTORAL PROCESS.
YOU TALK TO SOMEONE LIKE
SECRETARY MUCH STATE JOHN KERRY
OR SECRETARY OF DEFENSE, EVEN
OBAMA HIMSELF THEY COULD PUSH A
BUTTON NORMALIZE RELATIONS, THEY
WOULD LOVE TO, IRAN HAS
SIGNIFICANT INFLUENCE.
I WOULD ARGUE THIS TIME AROUND
AS OPPOSED TO OBAMA'S FIRST TERM
WHAT THEY'RE HOPING FOR IS LESS
REPROACH WHICH THEY PROBABLY SEE
AS UNREALISTIC AND MORE DETANTE.
THE PERSON WHO IS PERHAPS MOST
CONCERNED WITH HASSAN ROHANI'S
VICTORY IS BENJAMIN NETANYAHU.
I THINK WHAT HE SEES IS
EQUIVALENT OF PUTTING LIPSTICK
ON A PIG.
IRAN IS GOING TO CONTINUE TO
PURSUE, HE BELIEVES, SAME HARD
LINE NUCLEAR POLICIES BUT DO SO
WITH A MODERATE BASE WHICH WILL
MAE ITK MORE DIFFICULT TO COERCE
THE PRESSURE.
>> Ifill:  IS THAT WHAT HE
SHOULD BE WORRIED ABOUT?
>>  I THINK ISRAELIS GET THE
RECEPTION, I THINK THEY KNOW
THAT AT THE END OF THE DAY THAT
IRAN WILL HAVE SOME DOMESTIC
ABILITY TO ENRICHED URANIUM.
THAT THE WORLD IS, WHETHER THEY
RECOGNIZE IRAN'S RIGHT TO ENRICH
THEY WILL RECOGNIZE THAT IRAN IS
ENRICHING.
AND WHAT NETANYAHU IS UP TO KEEP
PRESSURE ON TO GET THE BEST
DEAL, GET THE MOST INSPECTIONS,
THE LONGEST LEAD TIME IF THEY DO
TRY TO CREATE A WEAPON.
I THINK HE'S WORRIED, HE'LL KEEP
THE PRESSURE UP BUT IF WE CAN
GET A GOOD VERIFIABLE INTRUSIVE
DEAL, I'VE BEEN TO ISRAEL SIX
TIMES, THAT'S WHAT THEY TELL
YOU.
THEY WOULD SUPPORT THAT.
>> Ifill:  THESE CONVERSATION,
THESE TALKS UNDERWAY THAT WERE
FROZEN AND WAITING ON THE
OUTCOME OF THE ELECTION, DO YOU
EXPECT THEM TOE START AGAIN?
>>  ROHANI WILL BE INAUGURATED
IN AUGUST.
IF YOU LOOK AT HIS PREVIOUS TEAM
OF NUCLEAR ADVISORS THEY WERE
ALL U.S. EDUCATED, THEY CAME
FROM MERCHANT BACKGROUND, THEY
WERE IDEALOGS.
HE HAS DEMANDED FROM THE PUBLIC
TO PURSUE CONFIDENCE BUILDING.
THIS IS THE FIRST TIME THAT
THESE STARS HAVE ALIGNED SINCE
THE YEAR 2000.
BUT I THINK OUR EXPECTATIONS
SHOULD BE TEMPERED.
>> Ifill:  A QUESTION FOR BOTH
OF YOU, IN YOUR OPINION, I'LL
START WITH YOU, WAS THIS FREE
AND FAIR ELECTION, YOU SAW THE
TURN OUT.
>>  IT WASN'T FREE IN THAT ONLY
A LIMITED POOL OF CANDIDATES
WERE ALLOWED TO RUN. OPPOSED TO9
ELECTION WHEN PEOPLE BELIEVED
VOTES WEREN'T COUNT THIS TIME IT
LOOKED TO THE SURPRISE OF MANY
OF US THAT INTEGRITY OF THE
BALLOT BOX WAS GOOD.
>>  IT WASN'T FREE IN THE SAME
WAY THAT KARIM SAID.
COMPARE IRAN THERE AREN'T ANY
ELECTIONS, THERE IS STILL, I
WOULD POINT OUT THIS REMARKABLE,
ENDURING DEMOCRATIC STREAK IN
IRAN.
THEY DO CARE ABOUT THE VOTE.
IT'S A REMARKABLE COUNTRY, I
THINK IT WAS FREE AND FAIR
ENOUGH FOR FOR ME TO ADMIRE WHAT
HAPPENED.
>> Ifill:  CLIFF KUPCHIN AND
SAW REAM SADJADPOUR.
THANK YOU BOTH SO MUCH.
>> Woodruff: NOW, WHY SOME
REPUBLICAN GOVERNORS WHO HAVE
BEEN VOCALLY OPPOSED TO
OBAMACARE ARE HAVING SECOND
THOUGHTS ABOUT WALKING AWAY FROM
AN EXPANSION OF MEDICAID.
HARI SREENIVASAN HAS THE STORY.
>> Sreenivasan: MEDICAID IS A
CRUCIAL PIECE OF THE HEALTH
REFORM LAW AND ITS GOAL OF
PROVIDING NEW COVERAGE TO 30
MILLION AMERICANS.
ROUGHLY 13 MILLION OF THEM ARE
EXPECTED TO RECEIVE COVERAGE BY
EXPANDING ELIGIBILITY TO THE
PROGRAM, WHICH PROVIDES HEALTH
CARE TO THE POOR.
BUT THE CALCULUS CHANGED AFTER
THE SUPREME COURT DECIDED STATES
COULD OPT OUT, EVEN THOUGH THE
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT WOULD PICK UP
100% OF THE NEW COSTS FOR THE
FIRST THREE YEARS.
SO FAR, 23 STATES-- MOSTLY LED
BY DEMOCRATIC GOVERNORS-- AND
THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA HAVE
SAID THEY PLAN TO EXPAND
ELIGIBILITY, STARTING NEXT YEAR.
18 OTHERS-- WITH REPUBLICAN
GOVERNORS-- ARE OPPOSED.
STATES COULD BE PASSING ON
BILLIONS OF DOLLARS.
NOW, SOME REPUBLICAN GOVERNORS
ONCE OPPOSED ARE PUSHING TO
EXPAND MEDICAID.
THAT INCLUDES FLORIDA, MICHIGAN,
OHIO, AND ARIZONA, WHERE
GOVERNOR JAN BREWER SIGNED A
BILL TO DO SO TODAY.
WE LOOK AT WHAT'S BEHIND THESE
CHANGES IN TWO OF THESE STATES.
MARY K. REINHART IS WITH THE
"ARIZONA REPUBLIC."
AND KAREN KASLER IS WITH OHIO
PUBLIC RADIO.
SO, MARY K. REINHART, WHAT DID
GOVERNOR BREWER HAVE TO DO AND
WHY DID SHE DID IT NOW?
>>  WELL, SHE HAD TO GET ABIPARR
REPUBLICAN-LED LEGISLATURE TO GO
ALONG WITH WHAT SHE'S ANNOUNCED
AT THE BEGINNING EVER THE
SESSION IN JANUARY THAT WAS A
TOP PRIORITY.
THAT WAS EXPANDING MEDICAID.
IT WAS A SURPRISE, STUNNED
OBSERVERS WE WERE ONE STATES TO
SUE TO STOP OBAMACARE AND THE
GOVERNOR NEEDED TO GET THIS
COALITION BEHIND HER, SHE PUT
THESE FOLKS TOGETHER.
WHEN NEGOTIATIONS STALLED THE
GOVERNOR CALLED A SURPRISE
SPECIAL SESSION, JUST 48 HOURS
THIS BIPARTISAN COALITION IN THE
HOUSE AND SENATE PUSHED THROUGH
MEDICAID EXPANSION, GOT HER TO
WHERE SHE IS TODAY SIGNING THAT
BILL.
>> SHE STILL DOESN'T ADMIT THIS
IS IN SUPPORT OF OBAMACARE.
>>  SHE ADMITS THAT THIS TINY
LITTLE PIECE SHE SUPPORTS.
IT'S THE LAW OF THE LAND, THE
ELECTION CERTAINLY WAS
CONCLUSIVE WITH THE RE-ELECTION
OF PRESIDENT OBAMA, THE SUPREME
COURT MADE ITS DECISION AND SHE
WAS TRYING TO CONVINCE FOR LAST
FIVE MONTHS OPPONENTS IN THE
LEGISLATURE BOTH LEADERS IN THE
HOUSE AND SENATE THAT THIS WAS A
DONE DEAL, WHAT ARIZONA NEEDED
TO DO WAS GO ALONG, DO THE MATH,
LOOK AT THE CALCULUS AS YOU SAY
AND REALIZE THAT WE'RE TALKING
ABOUT ENSURING AN ADDITIONAL
350,000 PEOPLE BRINGING IN $1.6
BILLION IN THE FIRST YEAR ALONE.
AND UPHOLDING THE WILL OF THE
VOTERS HERE IN ARIZONA WHO IN
2000 SAID THEY WANTED TO EXPAND
OUR MEDICAID PROGRAM TO ENSURE
PEOPLE UNDER THE POVERTY LEVEL.
WE HAD BEEN IN EXPANSION STATE,
GOVERNOR SAID IT WAS JUST A
FOLLY TO NOT GO AHEAD AND EXPAND
MEDICAID.
>> KAREN KASLER, WHAT IS THE
STATE OF PLAY IN OHIO WHERE IS
THE GOVERNOR?
>>  LIKE IN ARIZONA SURPRISED A
LOT OF PEOPLE WHEN HE SUPPORTED
EXPANSION OF MEDICAID, HE HAS
BEEN AN OPPONENT OF WHAT HE
CALLS OBAMACARE BUT SAID IN HIS
BUDGET HE TOOK THE AVENUE, THIS
IS WAY TO CAPTURE 13 BILLION
FEDERAL OVER SEVERAL YEAR A WAY
TO HELP OHIO'S 1.5 MILLION
UNINSURED.
MANY WHO ARE VERY POOR AND CAN'T
AFFORD HEALTH INSURANCE.
SO HE SPENT A LOT OF HIS
PERSONAL CAPITAL TRYING TO GET
THIS PASSED.
HIS PROPOSAL, THOUGH, WENT OVER
VERY, VERY POORLY IN THE STATE
LEGISLATURE WHICH IS DOMINATED
BY REPUBLICANS, YOU HAVE A LOT
OF REPUBLICANS IN OHIO WHO ARE
VERY SUSPICIOUS OF THE EXPANSION
MUCH MEDICAID.
AND SO IT WAS STRIPPED OUT OF
BOTH THE HOUSE VERSION AND THE
SENATE VERSION OF THE STATE
BUDGET.
OUR HOUSE SPEAKER SAID THAT OF 0
MEMBERS, THIS IS QUOTE FROM HIM,
WOULD RATHER SHOOT THEMSELVES IN
THE HEAD THAN VOTE FOR MEDICAID
EXPANSION.
SO RIGHT NOW WHAT'S HAPPENING IS
THAT OUT OF THE STATE BUDGET,
AND IT'S BEING CONSIDERED IN A
DIFFERENT WAY.
WE HAVE A MEDICAID EXPANSION
BILL THAT HAS ONLY ONE BACKER.
BUT NOW THERE'S A BILL THAT
DROPPED LATE LAST WEEK THAT HAS
LOT OF BIPARTISAN SUPPORT WHICH
WOULD REFORM MEDICAID IN OHIO
TRYING TO CONTAIN COSTS AND
INTEGRATE WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT
AND MEASURE HEALTH CUT OUTCOMES.
THAT APPEARS TO BE THE WAY,
MEDICAID REFORM RATHER THAN
EXPANSION.
>>  HOW DOES THIS AFFECT HIS
RELATIONSHIP WITH THE
LEGISLATURE, ESPECIALLY WITH
THOSE 20 WHO WOULD RATHER DO
SOMETHING ELSE.
>>  WELL, IT'S CERTAINLY BEEN AN
INTERESTING THING TO WATCH
BECAUSE GOVERNOR GOT A LOT OF
WHAT HE WANTED IN HIS FIRST
BUDGET CYCLE, AND OHIO ISLMOS AT
COMPLETELY RUN BY REPUBLICANS,
THERE'S A SUPER MAJORITY IN THE
HOUSE AND SENATE AND GOVERNOR IS
A REPUBLICAN AS WELL.
THERE'S BEEN A REAL PUSH ON HIS
PART TO TRY TO GET MEDICAID
EXPANSION BUT THERE'S BEEN A
REAL REKISS TANS ON THE PART OF
LAWMAKERS.
THIS ASK SEEN AS MAYBE A HALF
WAY POINT.
THE LAWMAKERS WHO ATHIS MEDICAIL
TOGETHER ARE SAYING THAT THEY
WANT TO IMPROVE THE SYSTEM
BEFORE WE START TALKING ABOUT
ADDING MORE PEOPLE TO IT.
SO THEY ARE STILL LEAVING THAT
DOOR OPEN SLIGHTLY BUT RIGHT NOW
THE PATH APPEARS TO BE TOWARD
REFORM RATHER THAN EXPANSION.
>>  MARY K. REINHART, I WANT TO
COME BACK TO YOU, HOW DOES THE
HOSPITAL INDUSTRY SEE THIS AND
WHAT KIND OF INFLUENCE ARE THEY
HAVING IN THE CONVERSATION?
>>  LIKE IN OTHER STATES, I
THINK THE HOSPITAL INDUSTRY,
CHAMBER OF COMMERCE HAVE BEEN
VERY INVOLVED IN TRYING TO PUSH
MEDICAID EXPANSION.
THEY WERE RIGHT ON BOARD EARLY
ON IN ARIZONA, THEY HAVE BEEN
CARRYING FOR A GROWING NUMBER OF
UNINSURED WHO ARE COMING THROUGH
THE EMERGENCY ROOMS, WE'VE HAD
COUPLE OF CHAPTER 11
BANKRUPTCIES IN ARIZONA, TODAY
AT THE SIGNING CEREMONY ONE
STATE LAWMAKER SAID YOU'VE SAVED
RURAL ARIZONA, YOU'VE SAVED OUR
HOSPITALS.
CLEARLY THEY WERE ON BOARD.
THEY ARE ALSO GOING TO BE
PAYING -- TAXING THEMSELVES
ESSENTIALLY TO HELP PAY
ARIZONA'S ADDITIONAL SHARE OF
MEDICAID EXPANSION.
SO THEY'RE IN ALL THE WAY WITH
AN ADDITIONAL PROVIDER
ASSESSMENT TO HELP PAY OUR SHARE
OF EXPANSION.
>>  KAREN KASLER, HOW MUCH MONEY
AT STAKE HERE, QUITE A FEW
MEMBERS OF THE G.O.P. IN
DIFFERENT STATES HAVE SAID THIS
FIRST THREE YEARS, FREE STUFF IS
GREAT BUT THAT 10% IS STILL A
LOT OF MONEY TO US LATER ON.
>>  GOVERNOR KASICK IT'S $1
BILLION OVER SEVEN YEARS.
THAT MONEY ISSUE IS CREDIT TALL
TO A LOT OF REPUBLICANS WHO
ON THE FENCE OR OPPOSED.
THEY FEEL LIKE EXPANDING
MEDICAID THEN IF THERE CHANCE
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT WOULD NOT
SOMEHOW FOLLOW THROUGH THAT
WOULD BE A DIFFICULT BENEFIT TO
TAKE AWAY.
THAT'S BEEN A LOT OF THE CONCERN
FROM CONSERVATIVES, THERE HAVE
BEEN SOME CONSERVATIVE THINK
TANKS THAT SAY, THEY'RE VERY
CONCERNED ABOUT THE LONG TERM
STABILITY OF THE SYSTEM.
THAT IS A REAL ISSUE HERE IS,
WELL THIS MONEY BE THERE WHEN
OHIOANS NEED IT OVER TIME.
BUT HOSPITAL ISSUE IS CRITICAL
HERE IN OHIO, TOO, WE HAVE A LOT
OF RURAL HOSPITALS, WE HAVE A
LOT OF URBAN HOSPITALS.
THEY'RE VERY CONCERNED ABOUT
THEIR LONG-TERM FINANCIAL
STABILITY IF MEDICAID IS NOT
EXPANDED.
>>  MISS KASLER, WHAT IS THE
TIMELINE HERE, LEGISLATION THAT
IS MAKING IT SO FAR DOESN'T
INCLUDE THE EXPANSION, WHAT IS
NEXT?
>>  WELL, THE BUDGET NEEDS TO BE
SIGNED BY THE EDGE OF THE MONTH
THAT IS NOT GOING TO HAPPEN.
THERE'S BEEN A CONCERN THAT IF
INDEED MEDICAID EXPANSION WASN'T
STARTED BY JUNE 30th THERE
WOULDN'T BE TIME CAPTURE ALL
THOSE FELLAL DOLLARS.
BUT I'M TOLD BY LAWMAKERS WHO
ARE BEHIND THIS MEDICAID REFORM
BILL THAT THEY STILL THINK
THERE'S A POSSIBILITY TO GO BACK
AND GET SOME OF THAT MONEY.
BUT THERE'S NO RUSH THAT WE NEED
TO IMPROVE THE SYSTEM BEFORE WE
ADD BENEFICIARIES TO IT.
BUT CERTAINLY TIME IS OF THE ITS
SENSE BECAUSE THE CLOCK IS
TICKING HERE AND SO THERE'S A
CONCERN TO GET IT DONE AS
QUICKLY AS POSSIBLE WITH THE
BUDGET OUT.
WAY, MAYBE THAT WOULD MOVE
FORWARD THE FIRST HEARING FOR
THESE REFORM BILLS IS TOMORROW.
AND SOY THERE'S A CHANCE IT WILL
MOVE FORWARD.
>> QUICKLY TO YOU, TOO, THIS
ISN'T THE END, PEOPLE ARE
PROPOSING BALLOT MEASURES.
>>  A GROUP OF FORMER GOVERNORS
AND G.O.P. ACTIVISTS THE GRASS
ROOTS THAT'S BEEN OPPOSED TO
THIS ALL ALONG ARE GOING TO BE
OFFICIALLY KICKING OFF
REFERENDUM DRIVE ON SATURDAY,
THEY'RE TAKING OUT PETITIONS
WITH THE SECRETARY MUCH STATE'S
OFFICE.
THEY HAVE GOT 90 DAYS TO COLLECT
ABOUT 86,000 SIGNATURES, IF
THEY'RE SUCCESSFUL OUR MEDICAID
EXPANSION BILL GOES ON HOLD
UNTIL THE NEXT GENERAL ELECTION.
THERE IS LAWSUITS FOLLOWING,
IT'S NOT OVER YET.
>>  MARY K. REINHART OFFICER
"THE ARIZONA REPUBLIC" AND KAREN
KASLER FROM THE OHIO REPUBLIC.
>
>> Ifill: FINALLY TONIGHT, THE
COLLECTION OF INFORMATION ONLINE
AND ITS ECONOMIC CONSEQUENCES.
THE RECENT REVELATIONS ABOUT
SURVEILLANCE HAVE RAISED
NUMEROUS QUESTIONS ABOUT THE USE
OF DATA BY THE GOVERNMENT AND
SERVICE PROVIDERS.
WE CLOSE WITH A LOOK AT ANOTHER
CONCERN ABOUT THE INFORMATION
THAT'S GATHERED: IS IT DEEPENING
A WIDENING CLASS DIVIDE?
ECONOMICS CORRESPONDENT PAUL
SOLMAN GETS THAT TAKE, PART OF
HIS REPORTING ON MAKING SENSE OF
FINANCIAL NEWS.
>>  IN BERKELEY, CALIFORNIA, THE
STUDIO OF JARON LANIER, AUTHOR,
COMPOSER IS, COMPUTER SCIENTIST
AND LATELY LEADING CRITIC OF THE
DIGITAL TECHNOLOGIES HE HIMSELF
HELPED INVENT.
THEY'RE WIDENING THE ECONOMIC
DIVIDE, HE SAYS.
DARKENING OUR FUTURE BY
DESTROYING PAID JOBS.
LIKE MUSICIANS, WHICH IS HOW HE
ONCE SUPPORTED HIMSELF.
>>  THIS IS SHAKU, IT'S
CLASSICAL JAPANESE FLUTE.
LANIER HAS ALSO LONG WORKED IN
TECHNOLOGY.
STILL DOES AS A TELECOMMUTING
CONSULTANT MICROSOFT RESEARCH IN
SEATTLE.
BUT IN RECENT YEARS, HE'S GROWN
SKEPTICAL OF THE INTERNET.
IN 2010 HE PUBLISHED "YOU ARE
NOT A GADGET" A MANIFESTO,
CRITIQUE OF DIGITAL NETWORKS
LIKE FACEBOOK AND TWITTER WHICH
HE CALLS SHALLOW AND
DEHUMANIZING.
>>  YOU DON'T DO THE --
I USED TO FOR MONEY.
ON  IT WAS THE COMPUTERIZATI
MUCH THE MUSIC INDUSTRY THAT
HELPED INSPIRE HIS NEW BOOK "WHO
OWNS THE FUTURE" IN WHICH HE
ARGUES THAT DIGITAL NETWORKS ARE
DESTROYING JOBS AND THE MIDDLE
CLASS, EX EXACERBATING ECONOMIC
INEQUALITY BY PROVIDING FREE
STUFF THAT'S REALLY PAID FOR BY
THE INFORMATION THE NETWORKS
TAKE FROM US AND SELL TO OTHER
BIG COMPANIES.
WHAT'S THE BASIC THING YOU WORRY
ABOUT?
>>  THAT WE'VE USED DIGITAL
NETWORKS TO ORGANIZE OUR WORLD
AND DIGITAL NETWORKS HAVE A
CERTAIN NEGATIVE SIDE EFFECT
THAT NONE MUCH US FORESAW.
A DIGITAL NETWORK, WHOEVER HAS
THE BIGGEST AND BEST CONNECTED
COMPUTER IS GOING TO GET ALL THE
POWER AND ALL THE MONEY AND THAT
CENTRALIZES THE REWARD SO MUCH
THAT IT SCREWS UP THE SOCIETY
AND ECONOMY EVENTUALLY.
>>  THIS IS THE GOOGLE, THE
FACEBOOK OF THE WORLD.
>>  IT'S NOT JUST THE USUAL
SUSPECTS LIKE THE GOOGLES AND
FACEBOOKS, SO FAR THERE ARE TWO
KINDS OF INDUSTRIES THAT HAVE
BEEN OVERTAKEN BY THE STRUCTURE
OF DIGITAL NETWORKS.
ONE IS FINANCE THE OTHER IS
CREATIVE INDUSTRIES, JOURNALISM
AND MUSIC AND THAT SORT OF
THING.
>>  I CAN SEE THE PROBLEM WITH
RESPECT TO THE CONCENTRATION OF
POWER, BUT HOW DOE ITS AFFECT
THE AVERAGE PERSON?
>>  WELL, WHAT HAPPENS WHEN YOU
INTERACT WITH SOMEBODY ELSE'S
GIANT COMPUTER OVER A NETWORK IS
ALWAYS AT FIRST THERE IS SOME
SPECIAL TREAT FOR THAT YOU
ENADVERTISES TO YOU ENTER IN TO
THR GAEIME IN THE CASE OF
FINANCE, IT WAS REALLY EASY TO
IN THE CASE OF CONSUMER INTERNET
SERVICES IT'S FREE STUFF, IT'S
THE COUPONS, FREE SOCIAL
NETWORKING AND SEARCH.
>>  FREE MUSIC, FLEE BLOGS.
>>  EXACTLY.
WHAT HAPPENS IS THE ISRE INITIAL
FREE STUFF.
THE MARKET CONTRACTS A LOT OF
WHAT USED TO BE PAID IS MADE
FREE SO THAT THE ECONOMY GETS A
LITTLE BIT SMALLER JUST NOTICE
THAT WHILE YOU'RE GETTING ALL
THESE FREE TREATS THERE'S MORE
INCOME CONCENTRATION AND IN
FINANCE IT'S CREATED INCREDIBLE
REWARDS FOR PEOPLE OF THE
BIGGEST COMPUTERS.
IN THE MEDIA INDUSTRIES IT'S THE
SAME THING.
>>  BUT IS IT ONLY HAPPENING IN
PACKETS OR THIS IS GOING TO BE
PERVASIVE?
>> IT'S COMING TO BASICALLY
EVERY PLACE.
WE HAVE SELF DRIVING CARS, ALL
THE TRUCK DRERSIV GO OUT OF
WORK.
WE ALREADY HAVE 3D PRINTERS,
ROBOTIC MANUFACTURING TOOLS,
EVENTUALLY MANUFACTURING WORKERS
CAN AWAY.
WE'LL HAVE AUTOMATIC ROBOTIC
MINING OF RAW MATERIALS, WE
ON'TW HAVE ALL THOSE PEOPLE
MOVING TO THE DAKOTA TO FRACK
ANY MORE THAT WILL GO AWAY.
>>  IN ECONOMICS THE CLICHEED
PHRASE IS CREATIVE DESTRUCTION.
>>  CREATIVE DESTRUCTION IS
GREAT SO LONG AS THERE IS ENOUGH
REBUILDING TO MAKE UP FOR THE
DESTRUCTION.
WHAT'S HAPPENING RIGHT NOW IS
ALL OF THE REBUILDING, ALL OF
THE WEALTH CREATION IS HAPPENING
AROUND THE PICKEST COMPUTERS AND
NOT OUT IN THE WORLD.
>>  LA MERE THINKS THAT'S A
RECIPE FOR DISASTER.
THERE IS PLENTY INFORMATION IN
HIS WORLD, OF COURSE.
>>  SPOKE THIS WAS MADE BY A GUY
WHO LIVED ON THE STREETS OF
BALTIMORE, HE MADE THIS OUT OF
GARBAGE, SOME OF THE DETRITUS OF
A MOTEL THAT WAS TORN DOWN IN
BALTIMORE.
>>  HE CALLED IT THE OBUTAR.
HE WAS ABU THE MASTER FLUTE
MAKER.
>>  EVEN MASTER ABU WASN'T
MAKING A LIVING.
A HARBINGER LANIER FEELS OF A
GRIM TWO-TIER ECONOMY.
>>  THE PROBLEMS I'M TALKING
ABOUT WITH MASS UNEMPLOYMENT DUE
TO PEOPLE BEING LEFT OUT OF THE
INFORMATION ECONOMY, THAT IS
STILL A DECADE OR TWO AWAY.
THE REASON I'M TALKING ABOUT
THIS NOW I THINK WE HAVE ENOUGH
LEAD TIME TO FIX IT.
>>  WHAT DO WE DO ABOUT THIS?
>>  IT TURNS OUT THAT THE VERY
FIRST CONCEPT OF DIGITAL
NETWORKING ACTUALLY SOLVED THIS
PROBLEM IN ADVANCE.
THE FIRST PERSON TO TALK ABOUT
DIGITAL THREE NETWORKED WAS TED
NELSON WHO STARTED HIS WORK IN
ABOUT 1960.
TED'S IDEA WAS THATRYBODY
WHO CONTRIBUTED OVER DIGITAL
NETWORK WOULD GET PAID IN LITTLE
MICRO PAYMENTS FOR WHATEVER THEY
DID.
WHAT THAT WOULD DO CREATE AN
ECONOMY THAT WOULD GROW AS
THINGS BECAME MORE DIGITAL.
>> FOR EXAMPLE, I'M DRIVING, AS
I DO NOW, I'M PART OF A NETWORK.
I LET PEOPLE KNOW IF THERE IS
TRAFFIC UP AHEAD.
I GET PAID FOR THAT.
>>  A LITTLE BIT, SURE.
OR HERE IS ACTUALLY THE BETTER
EXAMPLE.
RIGHT NOW ONE THING THAT
CONCERNS A LOT OF PEOPLE IS THAT
GOVERNMENT AGENCIES ARE PUTTING
UP CAMERAS EVERYWHERE.
SO AS YOU WALK AROUND IN THE BIG
CITY YOU MIGHT BE TRACKED
CONSTANTLY, I THINK THE
GOVERNMENT SHOULD HAVE TO PAY
FOR WHATEVER IT DOES INCLUDING
GETTING INFORMATION FROM PEOPLE
AND SHOULD BE CONSTRAINED BY THE
BUDGET.
IF HE HAVE TO PAY TO COLLECT
THOSE IMAGES OF YOU WALKING
AROUND.
THEN CREATE A SENSE OF BALANCE
OF HOW OFTEN.
>>  YOU'RE NOT JUST TALKING
ABOUT STREET CORNER SURVEILLANCE
CAMERAS, YOU'RE TALKING ABOUT
ANY COMPUTER NETWORK THAT IS EX
CAN TRACTING INFORMATION FROM
ME.
>>  RIGHT.
WHAT WE HAVE RIGHT NOW IS WE
HAVE THOUSANDS OF COMPUTERS, BIG
COMPUTERS AROUND THE WORLD WHO
ARE CREATING DOSSIERS ON ALL OF
US.
ANY INFORMATION THAT EXISTS
BECAUSE YOUXIST E SHOULD BRING
YOU REWARD.
YOU GET ILL, YOU GET BETTER,
YOUR MEDICAL CASE HISTORY AND
DATA GATHERED FROM YOUR BODY
BECOMES PART OF THE MEDICAL
DATABASES THAT HELP OTHERS, YOU
GET PAID.
FURTHERMORE BASED ON HOW
VALUABLE IT TURNS OUT TO BE.
SO IT MIGHT TURN OUT THAT
SOMETHING ABOUT YOUR D.N.A.
TURNS OUT TO HELP A LOT OF
PEOPLE TEN YEARS LATER CAN BE
MORE VALUABLE THAN EXPECTED.
YOU SHOULD BENEFIT
PROPORTIONALLY TO ITS VALUE.
>>  HOW DO YOU FORCE A COMPUTER
NETWORK TO PAY ME FOR SOMETHING
THAT THEY HAVE BEEN EXTRACTING
FROM ME FOR YEARS FOR FREE?
>>  I KNOW WHEN I TALK ABOUT
THESE IDEAS THAT MUST SOUND LIKE
I'M TALKING ABOUT SOMETHING
EXTREMELY COMPLICATED.
I'VE BEEN INVOLVED WITH THE
INTERNET FROM THE BEGINNING, A
RELATIVELY SMALL NUMBER OF
PEOPLE BROUGHT ABOUT THIS PRETTY
COMPLICATED THING ALREADY, WHAT
I'M TALKING ABOUT NOW IS JUST
CONTINUATION OF THE SAME SPIRIT.
AND ITDOES N'T SEEM ANY MORE
COMPLICATED THAN WHAT WE'VE
ALREADY DONE.
JUST MOVING IN A DIFFERENT
DIRECTION THAT I THINK IT'S MORE
SUITABLE TO MAKING US A
SUSTAINABLE SOCIETY.
>>  I'VE BEEN NAIVE WHEN I HAVE
FOR NUMBER OF YEARS NOW THOUGHT,
GEE, FREE IS GOOD.
FREE MAY BE THE WAVE OF THE
FUTURE.
>>  I HELPED MAKE UP THE WHOLE
IDEA OF FREE OPEN EVERYTHING A
LONG TIME AGO.
THERE'S A LOT OF GREAT QUALITIES
TO IT.
HOWEVER, IF WE CREATE A WORLD
WHERE EVERYBODY CAN BENEFIT FROM
THE INFORMATION ECONOMY, EVEN IF
IT'S JUST PURE INFORMATION, IN
OTHER WORDS, YOU ACTUALLY GET
PAID FOR YOUR BLOG POST OR YOUR
SOCIAL NETWORK ACTIVITY IF
YOU'RE POPULAR THAT KIND OF
STUFF.
THEN WE CAN CREATE A STRONGER
MIDDLE CLASS THAN WE'VE EVER HAD
BEFORE AS TECHNOLOGY GETS
BETTER.
THAT IS THE BIG IDEA, THAT'S THE
BIG POSSIBILITY.
>>  JARON LANIER.
>> THIS WAS GREAT.
I'M VERY HAPPY THAT YOU'RE
INTERESTED.
>> Woodruff: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY.
PRESIDENT OBAMA JOINED OTHER
LEADERS FROM THE WORLD'S
WEALTHEST NATIONS AT A SUMMIT
DOMINATED BY THE CIVIL WAR IN
SYRIA.
THE U.S. SUPREME COURT STRUCK
DOWN AN ARIZONA LAW THAT
REQUIRED PROOF OF CITIZENSHIP
WHEN SOMEONE REGISTERS TO VOTE
IN FEDERAL ELECTIONS.
>> Woodruff: AND THAT'S THE
NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
BUT BEFORE WE GO, WE HAVE SOME
EXCITING NEWS OF OUR OWN TO
SHARE THAT INVOLVES HARI.
WE'RE EXPANDING, AND BRINGING
YOU OUR UNIQUE BRAND OF
REPORTING AND ANALYSIS OF THE
NEWS SEVEN DAYS A WEEK.
STARTING SEPTEMBER 7, PBS
LAUNCHES THE "PBS NEWSHOUR
WEEKEND."
HARI WILL ANCHOR THE HALF-HOUR
SATURDAY AND SUNDAY PROGRAM FROM
NEW YORK, PARTNERING WITH MEMBER
STATION WNET.
IT'S THE NEXT STEP IN OUR
COMMITMENT TO MAKE THE NEWSHOUR
A TRUSTED, RELIABLE SOURCE OF
NEWS AVAILABLE ANYWHERE,
ANYTIME, WEEKDAYS, WEEKENDS,
AND, ALWAYS, ONLINE.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
>> Ifill: AND I'M GWEN IFILL.
WE'LL SEE YOU ONLINE, AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING.
THANK YOU, AND GOOD NIGHT.